[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: JavaScript is
syntactically a member of the C family.
>> Speaker 1: We've got identifiers which
can start with letters or underbars or
dollar signs.
I recommend not starting or ending
your property names with underbars or
dollar signs, but
they seem to be really popular.
Dollar sign was added to the language for
the benefit of machines for
macro processors and code generators,
things that wanted to be able to create
names be guaranteed they wouldn't
conflict with your names that they could
use a dollar sign and that made them safe.
Unfortunately, some kids found out that
you could have a function called dollar
and went crazy with it.
So, dollar functions
are all over the place now.
>> Speaker 1: We have both formats for
doing comments.
I recommend using just these
slashslash line format,
because sometimes we want to use
comments for commenting out code and
regular expression literals can
contain starslash and slashstar.
So weirdness can happen,
if you're using a block comments.
We have the same set of operators that you
would expect to see in a C-like language.
A few of them work a little bit
differently that you need to be aware of.
One big mistake in the language is that
the plus operator does both addition and
concatenation.
This is a bad habit
JavaScript learn from Java.
In Java, it's not so bad,
because it strongly typed.
So, you can predict which
one it's going to do.
JavaScript is loosely typed.
So it's not until you go to do the plus,
there it looks at the operands.
And if they're both numbers
it'll add them, otherwise,
it'll convert them both into strings and
concatenate them, which is bad.
For example, in a web application,
you might have a form field when you ask
the user to type a number into the field,
you then wanna take that number out and
add to something.
Forgetting that the value you take
out of a form element is always
a string even though everything
around it says, it's a number.
That's a really big
source of confusion and
you don't get an error you just
get extremely bad behavior.
>> Speaker 1: So, we can convert and
we can use the plus unitary operator
to convert strings into numbers.
And so, you often wanna do
that is as a defensive thing.
If you've got a value and you want to add
it and you're concerned that it might not
be a number, you can coerce it to be
a number before you do the addition.
But if you do that,
I recommend putting parens around it.
Because otherwise, you end up with
two plusses next to each other,
which can look like another problem.
>> Speaker 1: We don't
have integers formally.
So you can divide two integers
using the divide operator, but
you're not guaranteed to
get an integer result.
So, you need to be prepared for that.
And because it's binary floating point,
even the floating point result,
you get might not be
the one you would expect.
>> Speaker 1: The percent sign operator
is the remainder operator not the modulo
operator, which is a shame, because I
think modulo is the more useful one.
The difference is in which sign it uses.
>> Speaker 1: We already talked about
double equal and the problems with it.
I recommend you always use triple equal
instead, just because there are so
many weirdness in it,
things that are expected.
There's a meme on YouTube called WAT.
W-A-T.
Has anybody seen WAT?
Yeah, it's a crackup.
And mostly, it's playing fun with this.
They take two things, which are wildly
different and double equal them and
then says, true and they go WAT?
And they get a big laugh.
So, don't use double equal.
With the logical and operator works
a little differently than it does in Java,
because the operands do not need to be
bullion, they only need to be bullish.
So if the first operand is truthy, the
result is the value of the second operand.
Otherwise, it's the result
of the first operand.
It does do the short circuiting though, so
the second operand will only be evaluated
if the first one was faulty and
logical or works in a similar way.
>> Speaker 1: The exclamation
point is the logical not operator,
if the operand is truthy
than the result is false.
Otherwise, the result is true.
If you have bang, bang twice, it will
turn a bullish value into a Boolean.
>> Speaker 1: We have bitwise operators,
but we don't have ints.
So the way that works is we'll take
the 64-bit binary floating point,
turn it into a 32-bit signed integer.
Do the nasty to it and
then convert it back.
So in some languages,
you'll see people doing a shift,
because they think it's gonna
be faster than a multiply.
You shouldn't do that even in those
languages, cuz compilers are smart enough.
You should write the thing
that you intend, so
that someone reading the program will
know what supposed to be happening.
The compiler will sort out
the fastest way to do it.
But in this language, definitely,
you're not getting speed improvement
by doing it the wrong way.